feat(presets): add merge confidence preset (#23215)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/merge-confidence.md

Reviewer: Please replace mergeConfidence:default with mergeConfidence:all-badges

# Merge Confidence

Look at the Merge Confidence badges before merging to:

- Prevent updates which break in production
- See at a glance if you should update

Merge Confidence finds and flags undeclared breaking releases.
It analyzes test and release adoption data across Mend Renovate’s early-adopting user base.

![Renovate PR with Merge Confidence badges](assets/images/merge-confidence.png)

## Pull request badges

Merge Confidence adds the following badges to your pull requests:

- **Age**: The age of the package
- **Adoption**: The percentage of this package's users (within Renovate) which are using this release
- **Passing**: The percentage of updates which have passing tests for this package
- **Confidence**: The confidence level for this update

## Supported platforms

> Merge Confidence badges for pull requests are available in beta on any supported Renovate platform, including Mend Remediate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge Confidence badges for pull requests are available on any supported platform or Renovate distribution, including Mend Remediate.
```

## Supported languages

Data is available for packages from:

- npm
- Maven
- PyPI

We plan to support more languages soon.

## Enabling and disabling

> If you use the Mend Renovate App (formerly WhiteSource Renovate App) then the badges are enabled automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Mend Renovate App then the badges are enabled automatically.
```

- **High**: We rank updates as High confidence when the combination of `Age`, `Adoption` and `Passing` tests means there's a very low chance of breaking changes.

- **Very High**: We only use this for updates which are months old and have either high `Adoption` or have very high test `Passing` scores.

## How it works

Mend's hosted Renovate App has created millions of pull requests on `github.com` to help developers update their dependencies since 2017.
We bundle and analyze metrics such as package `Age`, package `Adoption`, and `Passing` tests.
This way we can find packages that have undeclared breaking changes.

### Algorithm

The algorithm that decides on the values is private and is not something we plan to share.
Similar to a search engine's algorithm, we plan to adjust and improve it over time, for example by using historical data to set a baseline confidence level for packages.

### Data

We plan to expose much more of the data via a companion website, such as number of users of a package and popular repositories which already updated to the version in question.

## Explanations

> ### npm package ranking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Package ranking
```

Might be a generic package ranking, not just npm?

npm packages less than three days old can be [unpublished](https://docs.npmjs.com/unpublishing-packages-from-the-registry/), which can result in a service impact if you have updated to a package that gets unpublished.

> This is why npm packages can only get the **High** Confidence badge when they are at least three days old.

Reviewer: @Gabriel-Ladzaretti this data might be outdated. I think npm silently changed it from 3 days to 7

Author: seems it is still 3 days 🤔 
https://docs.npmjs.com/policies/unpublish#packages-published-less-than-72-hours-ago

Reviewer: Great

### Percentage values weighting

The percentages for `Adoption` and `Passing` are weighted towards Organizations, private repositories, and projects with high test reliability.
This means those values aren't _raw_ percentages.

> ## Roadmap
> 
> High-level information on planned improvements is available in the [Merge Confidence Roadmap Project](https://github.com/whitesource/merge-confidence/projects/1) on GitHub.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I'd like to deprecate this as I didn't update it and it didn't get engagement

- Prevent updates which break in production
- See at a glance if you should update

Merge Confidence finds and flags undeclared breaking releases.
It analyzes test and release adoption data across Mend Renovate’s early-adopting user base.

![Renovate PR with Merge Confidence badges](assets/images/merge-confidence.png)

## Pull request badges

Merge Confidence adds the following badges to your pull requests:

- **Age**: The age of the package
- **Adoption**: The percentage of this package's users (within Renovate) which are using this release
- **Passing**: The percentage of updates which have passing tests for this package
- **Confidence**: The confidence level for this update

## Supported platforms

Merge Confidence badges for pull requests are available on any supported platform or Renovate distribution, including Mend Remediate.

## Supported languages

Data is available for packages from:

- npm
- Maven
- PyPI

We plan to support more languages soon.

## Enabling and disabling

If you use the Mend Renovate App then the badges are enabled automatically.

If you don't use the app, you can enable the badges by adding this to your Renovate config:

> ```json lines

Author: @HonkingGoose does `mkdocs` supports `json lines` ?
couldnt find anything documented about this. 

if it does not. then we should either use `json` and surround this lines with curly brackets:

```json
{
    "extends": [
        "mergeConfidence:default"
     ]
}
```
or use `js`:
```js
"extends": [
    "mergeConfidence:default"
  ]
```

  "extends": [
    "mergeConfidence:default"
  ]
```

If you want to disable the badges in the app, add this to your config:

```json lines
  "ignorePresets": [
    "mergeConfidence:default"
  ]

> ```

Reviewer 2: Remove the `lines` part here as well, and run Prettier.

Author: it fails tests
prettier fix doesnt help, we need to surround it with brackets 

```
$ node tools/check-fenced-code.mjs
Invalid JSON in fenced code block (docs\usage\merge-confidence.md lines 42-47): Unexpected token : in JSON at position 11
Invalid JSON in fenced code block (docs\usage\merge-confidence.md lines 50-55): Unexpected token : in JSON at position 17
2 issues found. Fix this manually by ensuring each block is a valid, complete JSON document. See above for lines affected.
error Command failed with exit code 1.
```

# Merge Confidence

Look at the Merge Confidence badges before merging to:

- Prevent updates which break in production
- See at a glance if you should update

Merge Confidence finds and flags undeclared breaking releases.
It analyzes test and release adoption data across Mend Renovate’s early-adopting user base.

![Renovate PR with Merge Confidence badges](assets/images/merge-confidence.png)

## Pull request badges

Merge Confidence adds the following badges to your pull requests:

- **Age**: The age of the package
- **Adoption**: The percentage of this package's users (within Renovate) which are using this release
- **Passing**: The percentage of updates which have passing tests for this package
- **Confidence**: The confidence level for this update

## Supported platforms

Merge Confidence badges for pull requests are available on any supported platform or Renovate distribution, including Mend Remediate.

## Supported languages

Data is available for packages from:

- npm
- Maven
- PyPI

We plan to support more languages soon.

## Enabling and disabling

If you use the Mend Renovate App then the badges are enabled automatically.

> If you don't use the app, you can enable the badges by adding the `mergeConfidence:all-badges` preset to the `extends` array in your Renovate config:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're self-hosting Renovate, you can enable the badges by adding the `mergeConfidence:all-badges` preset to the `extends` array in your Renovate config:
```

Let's put our points positively.
